Feature/j0190 UI l 1186 mwt (#957)
MicroEJ/docs: ApplicationDeveloperGuide/UI/MWT/concepts.rst

.. _section_layout_process:

Widget Lifecycle
----------------

> Desktop and widgets pass through different states. Once created, they can be attached, then they can be laid out, finally they can be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Desktops and widgets run through different states. Once created, they can be attached, then they can be laid out, and finally they can be shown.
```

A desktop is attached automatically as soon as it is shown on the display and detached when hidden.
It can also be attached manually by calling `Desktop.setAttached()`_ or detached by calling `Desktop.setDetached()`_.
It is particularly useful to render the desktop (and its widgets) in a buffered image for example.

> A widget is considered as attached when it is contained by a desktop that is attached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A widget is considered as attached when it is contained in a desktop that is attached.
```

In the same way, by default, a widget is shown when its desktop is shown.

> But for optimization purpose, a container can control when its children are shown or hidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But for optimization purposes, a container can control when its children are shown or hidden.
```

A typical use case is when the widgets are moved outside the display (in a scroll container for instance).

.. _Desktop.setAttached(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Desktop.html#setAttached--
.. _Desktop.setDetached(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Desktop.html#setDetached--

Hooks
~~~~~

When attached, a widget is notified by a call to its `onAttached()`_ method.
This notification can be useful to allocate some images or other resources for example.

> These resources can be used to compute the size of widget and to render it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These hooks can be used to compute the size of the widget and to render it.
```

Author: I actually mention the resources that can be allocated.

> In other words, after this call a widget is ready to be laid out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, after this call, a widget is ready to be laid out.
```

After being laid out, a widget is notified by a call to its `onLaidOut()`_ method.
Being laid out means that its bounds inside its parent are set.

> During this call, the widget can prepare some stuff used later by the rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During this call, the widget can prepare some resources used later by the rendering.
```

For example, it can split a string into several lines based on its width.
Another idea could be to allocate a buffered image and draw the background to avoid repainting everything during the rendering.

Beware that a widget can be laid out several times once attached (typically each time a `Desktop.requestLayOut()`_ or `Widget.requestLayOut()`_ is done).

> When a whole hierarchy is ready to be rendered, all the widgets are notified by a call to their `onShown()`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a whole hierarchy is ready to be rendered, all the widgets are notified by a call to their `onShown()`_ method.
```

This notification is particularly useful to start a periodic refresh or an animation.

> A widget can finally be `onHidden()`_ and `onDetached()`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A widget can finally be hidden and detached, in which cases its methods `onHidden()`_ and `onDetached()`_ will be called respectively.
```

> All that is started/allocated during the previous phases must be stopped/freed correctly to avoid memory leaks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these methods, anything that has been started or allocated during the previous phases must be stopped or freed correctly to avoid memory leaks.
```

.. _onAttached(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Widget.html#onAttached--
.. _onLaidOut(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Widget.html#onLaidOut--
.. _onShown(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Widget.html#onShown--
.. _onHidden(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Widget.html#onHidden--
.. _onDetached(): https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/Widget.html#onDetached--

Lay Out
~~~~~~~

All widgets are laid out at once during the lay out process.
This process can be started by `Desktop.requestLayOut()`_ or `Widget.requestLayOut()`_.
The layout is also automatically done when the desktop is shown (`Desktop.onShown()`_).

> This process is composed of two steps, each step browses the hierarchy of widgets following a depth-first algorithm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process is composed of two steps. Each step browses the hierarchy of widgets following a depth-first algorithm:
```

- Compute the optimal size for each widget and container (considering the constraints of the lay out).

> - Set position and size for each widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set the position and size for each widget.
```

A widget must implement its `Widget.computeContentOptimalSize()`_ method.

> It is explained in details in this section: :ref:`mwt_widget_optimalsize`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is explained in detail in this section: :ref:`mwt_widget_optimalsize`.
```

> A container is responsible of layouting its children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A container is responsible for laying out its children.
```

> For that it must implement its `Widget.computeContentOptimalSize()`_ method and call the `Container.computeChildOptimalSize()`_ method for each of its children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that it must implement its own `Widget.computeContentOptimalSize()`_ method and call the `Container.computeChildOptimalSize()`_ method for each of its children.
```

.. _CascadingStylesheet: https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/mwt/stylesheet/cascading/CascadingStylesheet.html
.. _Label: https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/widget/basic/Label.html

Widget's Style
--------------

At any time, a widget has a style that can be retrieved using `Widget.getStyle()`_ method.

When created, the widget's style contains the default value for each field.
These default values are defined in the `DefaultStyle`_ class.

> Once it is attached to a desktop, the widget's style is computed from the stylesheet set to the desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once it is attached to a desktop, the widget's style is computed from the stylesheet set in the desktop.
```

This is done using the `Stylesheet.getStyle()`_ method.

> The style can then be used during the layouting and the rendering of the widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The style can then be used during when laying out and rendering the widget.
```

At any time, the style of the widget can be recomputed by calling `Widget.updateStyle()`_.

> For example when its state change:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example when its state changes:
```
